Okay we got a very simple example using
Spring Boot with a RabbitMQ here and
what I have is a simple application. It's a
web application we're going to back it
up with MySQL. So you can see the
examples running. I'm actually running in
the background here. I am running MySQL
in a Docker container also running
RabbitMQ in a Docker container. If you're
not familiar with Docker I do have a
whole course on Docker. So definitely
worth checking out but you don't need to
be running that in a container, you just need
to have those services available on
localhost and for MySQL, these by default
it's going to be looking for a Spring
Boot schema or a schema specifically to
this, the database schema of springboot
_rabbitmq-example you can see
here on the screen this is a
prerequisite to run this and then you're
also going to need to have RabbitMQ
running on localhost at port 5671. Now of course the source code
for this example is available up on
GitHub in my little area of GitHub and
you can go to github/springframeworkguru and this repository is
/spring-boot-rabbitmq-example. So scroll down here in the
README a little bit more, the application
flow so what we're going to see here in
the application we'll bring up the web
application, pretty simple application
I actually have other examples of this out
there
CRUD style application for a product, we
can create a product and on that I've
added a link to increment a message and
what that link is going to do is hit a
controller action send a message to the
queue and then Rabbit will pick up that
message and update the database for us.
So I am going to toggle over to IntelliJ
and we'll step through the source code
example now the first thing I got up
here is a Spring Boot POM and we can see
that I am using at the time of recording
the latest release of Spring Boot that
is 1.5.2
You can see that up on line 17 there now the
dependencies that we need to bring on
the big one for RabbitMQ is going to be
right there on line 28 to 31 the
dependency for spring-boot-starter-amqp. Now that dependency as a curated
dependency from the Spring guys in which
will bring in everything that we need to
talk to RabbitMQ. Now the next thing down
on 33 to 36 is the MySQL connector so
that is going to give us the drivers
that we need to talk to the MySQL
database and then finally on 38 to 41 I
am doing in the Spring Boot or the
Spring Boot Starter for Spring Data JPA
and this is what's going to bring in both Spring
Data JPA and Hibernate which is the
dependency of the Spring Data JPA so
we're using Hibernate and Spring Data
for all our persistence operations and
then 43 there, 43 to 46 we're bringing in
the starter for Thymeleaf then below
that 48 to 50, we are bringing in the
Spring Boot Starter for web and then
finally tests and I am being a bad
developer here I don't really have any
tests written for this. So let's a take a
little step through this flow wise I am
not focused on the MySQL persistence
layer here so I'm not going to cover
that. I do cover that in other videos so
if you need some help with persistence
go ahead and check those out but here I
am focused on the message flow so what we
are going to do is on the show page, we
are going to provide a link to click on
and on that link we'll click on and that
that link is going to render by the
product ID so this here sets up a link
using a Thymeleaf tag which will be able
to click on if you're not familiar with
Thymeleaf, I having a whole course on
Thymeleaf. So you can really deep dive on that
if you want but here we'll get a link to
click that will go to our ProductController and
we have this indexProduct/, so
that's what's going to get executed by
that way and I've set up the ProductService, kind of standard template I try
to keep all business logic out of the
controller so we'll do all the heavy
lifting,
"heavy lifting" inside of
the ProductService and we see that, I'll
just click through this, this is
implemented in an interface and I can
click right here to the implementation
now what this does is it takes in the ID to
get a simple map that we're going to put
on the queue, we can get an ID so right
there in line 75 we're just mapping to a
String of ID and the ID value that was
passed in from the controllers or
whatever that is, doing a little log
statement there so we can see it and
then we are using the RabbitTemplate to convert and send and if you're familiar with
the JMS stuff for Spring just like JmsTemplate but RabbitTemplate and we're
going to shoot it down to a queue and
that action map. So next thing that's
going to come into play is our ProductMessageListener. This is set up to
listen on that queue and what he's going
to do is log a message, we're going to
see that on line 32, we're converting
that String to a Long because it's what
how we're storing the ID in the database
we are going to fetch, that we have a
boolean value on the product to see if a
message has been received so we'll flip
that to true and then we will increment
the message count by one. So every time
we get a message we'll set it true,
implement by one so we can see that go
up and then finally on 37 we are going
to save that message so that's kind of
how everything flows through the system
we got a couple minor configuration
things to look at so we are doing that
in the SpringBootApplication class now
in this main class for Spring Boot is
also treated as a configuration class
first Spring so we can wire up beans in
that and now one thing that we want to
do is set up a public final
static String for our message queue
because we need to use that value in
several places. You saw me using that in
the service, that consumes and produces
the messages so we don't want to
repeat ourselves, just good programming, don't repeat yourself. If this was a
larger Enterprise class application I'd
probably make that property externalized
so we're not hard coding it here but
it's just an example so on line 18 we do
have a hard-coded queue value so if this is
a large Enterprise type application
you'd probably want to externalize that
to property so you could change that
without doing a code change should you
need to.
So on line 20 to 21 there we are creating a
queue using the queue name that we
defined on 18 or create a topic and then
we are creating a Binding
Builder there. So this is all the RabbitMQ type stuff and the next thing
so this sets up kind of the plumbing in
and out of Rabbit we want to set up a
Listener Container. So what we are going
to do is set up a listenerAdapter and
this type of style for RabbitMQ, it can
accept any POJO that will take in the
value coming in off that queue. So this
is our ProductMessageListener which I
just showed you here, so this is what's
going to receive it and you can see that
it has a receiveMessage and we are
setting this up as a Spring component so
this is going to be a Spring bean I
don't get configured by Spring and
ProductRepository will get autowired
in for us so all this will get set up by
Spring so we are saying is this bean
it's going to take in an instance of
that so Spring managed bean, it's going
to get injected into this and we are
creating an Aadapter kind of a wrapper
around the simple POJO that's going to
do whatever we need it to do and then
we're telling it the default listener
method so we are specifying that so we
have a custom bean so this kind of
decouples  that implementation from RabbitMQ. So I'm going to start this up
and run it now
and again while this is starting and as
a reminder you do need to have RabbitMQ
running as well as MySQL and we can see
down here that this is started you can
see that's all up. I'm just going to move
that up and let's come on over to Chrome
and I want to pull this up so we can see
log messages going across so down the
bottom screen I have the Spring Boot
console outputting so I'm going to hit
refresh there we can see that it came
back with a list of products. I don't
have any products so I am going to go
ahead and create a new product. Test
product, we'll give them a price of 23
some URL. I don't have my brains on this
on that validating for a valid URL and
I'm going to go ahead and submit that
now we can see that I am logging to the
SQL for Hibernate and we can see that
that activity has occurred down there on
the bottom of the screen where we didn't
go ahead and insert a new Product ID and
I can refresh this.
Now here's my action, I'm going to go
ahead and click on this and we see that
I came back right away now what's going
on here is some messages sent false
zero, so what happened is, this
came into the controller method, we sent
the message to RabbitMQ and the browser
returned right away but that message was
off on the RabbitMQ, gone down
asynchronous to the message broker we
had a different thread listening on that
and he got picked up so we can
see that we did get an update here of
the product. So let's go ahead and
refresh this. Now we can see that message
is sent is true and we have a message
count that has been incremented so if I
click on this again, we can see that the
messages are getting processed almost
right away and as I increment this, it's
always going to be like a step behind
it's almost a race to see who gets
finished first if the web requests can
do that sometimes it actually wins but
typically you're going to get the old
value returned and that update is going
to occur after the page renders. So it
does happen pretty darn fast
sometimes it is a race and it doesn't catch
up but so now we can see that we've gone
through and then we are sending a
message for that Product ID and that
specific Product ID is getting updated
by a message listener after the message
has gone across the brailles of RabbitMQ
and again if you want a complete source
code for this example I do have it up on
GitHub at
springframeworkguru/spring-boot-rabbitmq-example
so hope this helps you.